#summary A tutorial for creating C programs for FunghOS.

= A simple program =

Developing applications for FunghOS should is very easy. A lot of things are the same as you were used to when creating apps for "normal" OSes. The only things you need to know are functions prototypes, which you can find in the appropriate file in the SVN repository, or you can use this wikipage (SVN is updated more often, though, so it's always better to use SVN).

Now, I will show you a simple program for FunghOS, which will read a string from the keyboard, then print it using various colors.


{{{
#include <stdio.h>
}}}

You should be familiar with this first line of code. The most interesting things about it are the functions prototypes, which you can use if you include stdio.h.

extern void putch(unsigned char c);

extern void puts(unsigned char *text);

extern void puti(int x);

extern void putx(int x);

extern void txtclr(unsigned char forecolor, unsigned char backcolor);

extern char getchar();

extern char *gets(char *string, int max);

extern int mkwin(int x, int y, int x2, int y2, int pid); /* create a window */

extern int rmwin(int winnum, int pid); /* delete a window */

These functions should be pretty self-explanatory. The only ones I'm going to explain are the mkwin() and rmwin() functions. The mkwin() function will create a window for your program. If you don't create a window at the begining of your app, it will simply run on the terminal from where it was launched. 

TO BE CONTINUED